---
layout: article
title: Richard Stallman's Visit to Bengaluru- A Recap of His Thought-Provoking Speech
tags: FLOSS Philosophy
author: Het Joshi
---

On a recent visit to REVA University in Bengaluru on the 20th of October 2022, renowned computer scientist and free software advocate Richard Stallman delivered a thought-provoking speech on a wide range of topics related to technology and its impact on society. Below, we summarize some of the key points he made during his visit.

## Copyleft

Stallman spoke about the concept of copyleft, which is a way to use copyright law to ensure that software remains free and open-source. He explained that copyleft works by requiring that any derivative works of a copylefted piece of software also be released under the same license. This ensures that the software remains free for everyone to use, modify, and distribute.

## Google and Apple

Stallman touched on the power of companies like Google and Apple, and how they use proprietary software to control their users. He argued that these companies use their control over software to limit users' freedom and to collect data on them for targeted advertising.

## GNU Toler

Stallman also introduced the concept of GNU Toler, which is a free software operating system that is designed to be more tolerant of hardware errors. He explained that the goal of GNU Toler is to make it easier for users to recover from hardware failures and to minimize the need for costly repairs.

## Connected Cars

Stallman discussed the implications of connected cars, and how they can be used to collect data on users and track their movements. He argued that this is a violation of privacy and that users should be able to control the data that is collected from their cars.

## False Privacy Policies

Stallman also addressed the issue of false privacy policies, and how companies often make promises about protecting user data that they do not keep. He argued that users should be more skeptical of these promises and demand real privacy protections.

## "Selling Your Data" but May Use It Themselves

He also talked about how companies collect data from users and then sell it to third parties, but at the same time, they use it for their own purposes. He argued that this is a violation of users' privacy and that companies should be more transparent about how they use user data.

## UPI not a Free Service

Stallman also spoke about how UPI, India's unified payments interface, is not a free service. He argued that users should demand a free and open-source alternative to UPI.

## THERE IS NO CLOUD

Stallman explained that the term "cloud" is misleading and that the data and services that people use on the "cloud" are actually stored on physical servers that are owned by companies. He argued that users should be aware of this and demand more control over their data.

## GNU Health - management service

He also introduced GNU Health, a free software management service for medical institutions and hospitals. He explained that GNU Health is designed to give users more control over their medical data and to make it easier for healthcare providers to share data with each other.

## Why he does not carry mobile Phones (Stalin's Dream)

Stallman also discussed his personal decision to not carry a mobile phone, explaining that he believes that the constant connectivity provided by mobile phones is a form of "Stalin's dream" and a violation of privacy.

## Hardware Restrictions

Stallman spoke about the issue of hardware restrictions, and how companies use firmware and hardware locks to limit users' ability to control their devices. He argued that users should demand the ability to control their own hardware and to install freesoftware on their devices.

## DRM

Stallman also discussed the issue of digital rights management (DRM), and how it is used to restrict users' ability to use and share digital content. He argued that DRM is a violation of users' rights and that it should be abolished.

## Refuse proprietry Software in the education field: Use BigBlueButton, Mumble instead of Zoom or Gmeet

Stallman emphasized the importance of using free and open-source software in the education field, and he encouraged educators to use alternatives like BigBlueButton and Mumble instead of proprietary software like Zoom or Gmeet. He explained that these alternatives are more secure and give users more control over their data.

## Manipulation of elections, Monopoly - Amazon(Doxxing)

Stallman also discussed the issue of election manipulation and the increasing power of monopolies like Amazon. He argued that these companies use their power to control and manipulate the information that is available to users, and that this is a serious threat to democracy.

## Cash is an anonymous option as online payments dox your data

Stallman also highlighted the importance of anonymous payments, and how cash is still the most anonymous option for transactions. He explained that online payments can be used to track users and collect data on them.

## Addiction forming apps like Meta's

Stallman also talked about the issue of addiction-forming apps, and how they are designed to keep users engaged for as long as possible. He argued that these apps are a serious problem and that users should be more aware of the risks associated with them.

## Freedom comes at a cost

Stallman emphasized that freedom comes at a cost, and that users need to be willing to fight for their rights. He argued that users should be more active in demanding privacy protections and free and open-source software.

## Libre JS (Non Free Javascript sent to clients)

Stallman also introduced LibreJS, a free software that blocks non-free JavaScript from being sent to users' browsers. He explained that LibreJS is designed to protect users from the malicious use of JavaScript and to give users more control over the software that runs on their devices.

## SSH and encryption for computer synced products communicating through Internet

Stallman also highlighted the importance of using encryption and secure shell (SSH) to protect data when it is transmitted over the internet. He explained that this is especially important for computer-synced products, which are vulnerable to hacking and other forms of cyberattacks.

## Immoral free programs are still bad

Stallman also made it clear that just because a program is free and open-source, it does not mean that it is morally good. He argued that users should be aware of the ethical implications of the software they use and that they should not support programs that are immoral.

## InstallFests - Device Drivers are sometimes a exception but should be installed externally

Stallman also discussed the issue of device drivers, which are often proprietary and can be difficult to install. He explained that while device drivers are sometimes necessary, they should be installed externally and not bundled with the software.

## Free as in freedom

Stallman emphasized that free software is not just about the cost, but about the freedom that it gives users. He argued that users should be more aware of the importance of freedom and that they should demand it in all aspects of their lives.

## Why Open-Source misses the point

Stallman also discussed the limitations of open-source software, and how it can still be used to control users. He argued that open-sourcesoftware is not enough to ensure freedom, and that users should also demand control over their data and the ability to modify and distribute the software.

## GH Copilot - Sometimes uses others code violating CopyRight

Stallman also discussed the issue of copyright violation in the open-source community, and how some projects like GH Copilot have been known to use code from other projects without proper attribution or licensing. He argued that this is a serious problem and that the community should be more vigilant about enforcing copyright laws.

## Stay firm in your rules and say 'no'

In conclusion, Stallman emphasized the importance of staying firm in one's principles and being willing to say "no" to proprietary software, false privacy policies, and other threats to freedom and privacy. He encouraged users to demand more control over their data and to support free and open-source software.




Overall, Stallman's visit to REVA University was a thought-provoking and enlightening experience. He provided valuable insights on how technology is impacting our society and how we can work towards a more free and open future.
